# Think About Time
  The shell is the part of the interface that allows you to interact with an operating system. Bash is a language used in Unix, Linux, and OS X. Bash can read scripts. The most difficult thing for me about this material was going through all of the commands without really knowing why they are relevant or important. I feel like I don’t know enough about programming at this point to understand the gravity of some of what I’m learning. I’m not sure if I was able to successfully use all of the commands since I don’t know what the appropriate response from my computer would be if used correctly. Some of them gave me a couple lines of feedback while others gave me a slew of feedback that I couldn’t tell was good or bad. I imagine that copying a file or directory would be helpful since it seems like it could save you a lot of time compared to writing out the whole file or directory over again. I also think that grep would be useful if you’re looking for something specific within whatever you’re looking at. I could not remember what all of the following did off the top of my head. pwd = print working directory. ls = list the directory. mv = move file or directory. cd = change directory. ../ = is the parent directory of the root path. touch = updates the modification date. mkdir = make directory. less = page through a file. rmdir = remove directory. rm = move a file or directory. help = reads the manual’s page.

## The Command Line
Git is something you download to work on code on your own device. It is only kept on your computer unless you move it somewhere else or share it with others. Github is similar to Git, but is a programming tool that can be shared by many people working on the same project, even at the same time. It also keep track of individual updates and keeps a “master” section that contains the best version of the code. Version control can keep people’s code separate until they’re ready to share, and allows others to view it when they have made a commit. It also keeps older versions of code so you don’t accidentally delete all of your previous work just from a mistake made that day. This is helpful to developers because of how it would be a disaster and you’d probably lose a lot of friends if you ruined someone else’s code that they had been working on for a while, although you could always just use Git rather than Github so that no one else could change it. A commit is when you can show parts of your code to other so that they can see how it is set up and how it would work.

### Forking and Cloning
In order to instruct someone how to create a new repo, I would tell them to click on the plus sign next to their avatar on github and hit “Create new Repository” and then edit any particular selections they would like to make. To clone a repo, you would go to the project that you want to clone, copy the url provided on that page in the box on the right, and then copy it to your own command line. Forking a repo is helpful because you can make the exact same version of code available to lots of people and then they can use it as is or change it if they like. I didn’t have any problems making a new repo, but I didn’t initially understand where to put the clone once I had copied the url. I learned that I need to get more accustomed to navigating all of the new software I have on my computer since I didn’t realize that a url could transfer a project onto my own computer. Forking and cloning is easier than I thought it would be.
